11/19/25

Production of the closed course participant kits has begun in earnest. Before now, an estimated ~200 hours of work (not including communications) has gone into the project. The first thing I had to do was attack the scope creep of the initial idea, having been planning to offer a choice of two instruments, the Dill4x and KeybedO1R1.

The KBO1R1 was a piano layout style enclosure with parametric design that would allow for any layout of octaves and even organ-style rows of keys. O stands for octave, and R for row, with the numbers referencing the build configuration. Dilla4x was also planned to be parametric, going anywhere from 2x to 16x officially.

We have settled on using a hard base of the Dilla4x, a four by four MCP-style drum pad layout. 

There are a few notable problems we've run into before even starting:

One, we ordered dupont wires for solderless learning, but pins on keyboard switches and arcade buttons are flat, not square. They're incompatible with the duponts, meaning we have to solder all of them by hand. This wouldn't be such a bad thing, but the dupont wires are full of many tiny copper lines, not a solid core. While we pivoted to hand cutting and stripping every dupont to allow keyswitches to be experimented with solderless, The result is that the stripped dupont wires are either coated or just plain non-wetting for whatever reason, and the soldering difficulty is massive. Still, we're soldering hundreds of hand stripped wires to the pin. 

The second thing is that with this setup, while the wires can normally bend without breaking, when you tin the wires to the solder joint, it creates a hard crease where the dried solder stops and the soft wire returns, making the duponts snap off near immediately, often even without use. As such we also have to add strain relief to ever single keyswitch individually. 

Third, we've rewritten the firmware to revise analog potentiometers and faders, displays, rgbs, etc to be outside of the scope of the project, as well as the intelligent pin assigning matrix and user editable preset pre-sketch. Now, code is minimal, well commented, and easy to learn the actual function of.

Now, we actually begin, with last week and this week both being around sixty hour weeks of CAD modeling, course revision for the new pivoted plan, and kit assembly. CAD file is finally done thanks to OnShape granting me an educational license, as FreeCAD was unfortunately being a nightmare. The top and bottom of the instrument enclosure is done, and iteration is well underway, staring with the bottom half, or the tray that holds the arduino. 