Where to even begin. Controlsurface library didn't work on the arduino pro micro, and I had to write my own code for MIDIUSB and the midi functionality directly. This did save about 30-40% of the flash space, but it was a lot of work. Things are working much better now, as they work at all.

Then, the octaving was bad in multiple ways, the LEDS were tying up the musical function and usb communications of the device, so the midi flushing, led and usb functions, and priorities of all of them were rewritten. 

Then, we started finding all of the shorts we (I) had made the top half of the device, with the keyswitches having their positive shorted to ground and always being pulled low, making the key dead/always pressed. A script was written to detect all of the short. 

After that, it was made apparent something else was happening, and it turns out while the undersides of the boards looked fine, under the rubber spacers on the other side, the traces were shorted on the Arduino headers, so the bottom half of the device was shorted as well. We made another script to detect all of the shorts, and we found that many of the arduinos had been compromised in this way.

After WEEKS of troubleshooting, canabalizing devices and testing, we finally got eight out of twelve Dilla4x devices working. The remaining four were either shorting on one of the keyswitches in the top component, or their arduinos were shorting on the arduino headers. With the amount of time and resources we've put into this, it's clear that we needed to get these devices out with how long desoldering all of the headers and soldering new ones would take on top of fixing all of the keyswitches.

8/12 doesn't really feel like much of a victory, especially after the hundreds of hours, and it is frustrating that the problems that caused the broken devices were such amatuer mistakes. Bridges arduino headers and ground shorts. User error. Still... it's a victory of sorts.

After creating 13 Dilla4x devices, with the 5 not working only having minor issues preventing their being functional, I have gleaned the following info:

If left unwatched, the ground wire, if bare, will retain heat, sink through hot glue strain relief, and short positive to ground. You must be extremely careful until the ground wire is actually cooled. 

If using solid core, you must be careful when soldering the ground pins, as when the wire heats, it will sink through the plastic housing of the keyswitch, destroying the entire switch. 

If using dupont wires, you must ensure the hot glue strain relief has solid bond to the actual housing of the key and is fully cooled and fully encasing the solder joint, or it WILL snap off. 

If using a sketch that utilizes MIDIUSB natively, you likely will no longer be able to actually use the Arduino as a USB device, as the sketch will take over the USB functionality. This makes it so you can "soft brick" devices if you don't have a way to jump the reset pin. 